July 10 Zoo Notes - 

We spoke to Paquita and a few the zoo keepers (Bruce Rideout, Joop Kuhn, Brett Baldwin) 
regarding the logistics of the project and the site of installations. 

Things To Consider:

    1. One of the most important decisions Paquita brought up was that she now wants
       modules set up at 3 different sites: the gharials, the condors, and the 
       rattlesnakes. We will need to order more parts!
       
    2. We are welcome to run tests on the systems before opening hours but we will need
       an escort. Paquita can get us student ID cards so that we can get into the zoo 
       during visiting hours and look at the sites without an escort. 
       
    3. Some of the exhibit window panes consists of 3 separate panels sandwiched 
       together. This may potentially affect the detection of the vibration or alter 
       the acoustics of the glass requiring us to use stronger sensors or a higher 
       signal threshold to detect the vibration. We will also need at least one sensor 
       on each pane of glass.
       
    4. We need to place the sensors in such a way that guests cannot touch them and 
       that they will not not block the line of sight of the animal
    
    5. Paquita would like to have the video buffer extended to include footage from 2 
       seconds before the collision and 20 - 30 seconds after the collision so that if 
       the bird rebounds off the glass and falls on the ground they can see whether the 
       bird is able to recover and fly away (or is dead).

    6. The zoo keeper brought up an important event that may affect the system’s programming 
       each morning. The windows in each exhibit is cleaned each morning before the opening 
       of the zoo every day. The process takes approximately 30 minutes. Paquita does not 
       want the system to record footage of the windows being cleaned and she does not know
       whether the windows will be regularly cleaned at the same time each morning; therefore, 
       we will need a way to sleep the system. We can  have a button that sleeps the system
       for 30 minutes then resumes after that time interval. (We can also have a light on the 
       side of the system to indicate that the system is sleeping.)

    7. The system may also need to weed out low and continuous signals (vs sharp spikes) 
       in order to remove events that are not bird collisions (such as window cleaning).  

    8. For the condor exhibit, Paquita wants a wide camera view of the window panes. 
       We can have two cameras (one on each end of the exhibit) pointed towards the center 
       glass panel and (multiple ?) sensors mounted on each pane. (2 Modules)

    9. For the rattlesnake exhibit, we will have two cameras (one mounted on each pole) pointed
       towards the exhibit. For the module mounted on the pole on the other side of the visitor’s
       pathway, we will need to use a wireless (xbee) radio module to send the vibration detected 
       from the piezo to the main control board (mounted on the pole). (2 Modles)

    10. For gharials site, we will need to mount a single module on the gazebo pointed at the 
        single glass panel. However, for this site, we may need to mount sensors on both sides 
        of the pane due to birds colliding with both sides of the glass (1 Module) 

    11. The glass panels in all three locations are made up of three layers of 1/2" glass (1.5" 
        total thickness). 
